(siren wailing)
Would you do something,
Milton, please?
You’re the one driving. What
exactly would you like me to do?
I don’t know, shoot back,
maybe. Shoot back, huh?
Okay, just say so
and I’ll do it.
Shoot back,
please, Milton.
Whoa!
Some crack shooting,
Detective.
Hold it steady, damn it.
Now you’re just pissing him off.
You think you
can do any better?
No, I’m positive I could better,
but you’re even worse at driving
than you are at
shooting that gat.
Hey, get closer. I’m gonna
shoot out his tires.
All right, all right,
all right.
Do whatever you’re gonna do,
but make it quick.
Whoa, hey!
(Hawaii Five-O
theme song playing)
♪ ♪
Oh... thank you.
You good?
Yeah, good.
Thanks, man.
What do you say, fellas?
What you got here--
"hoo-doovers"?
♪ ♪
I’ll tell you what--
next time,
you should get yourself
a plate of food, all right?
No, I’m-I’m kidding. And try
the squash blossoms, all right?
They’re very good.
Excuse me, come here.
What’s with the guy’s plate?
It was piled like this.
What is this, the last
supper for this guy?
He’s enjoying the food.
Enjoying the food?
Yeah.
This is killing us, the soft
opening. It’s destroying us.
What are you talking about?
Just so you know, okay?
And the langoustines
and the veal, why?
Why langoustines
and veal?
That’s what this is all about.
Danny, this whole event
is to show people
what we’re doing here
and what-what we’re gonna cook.
Everybody has a great time.
Besides, these guys are cops,
they deserve the best.
We-we deserve to make some money
at some point. Do we not, huh?
I’m-I’m going to
have a drink.
I might get drunk.
♪ Been dreaming of... ♪
Steve.
Duke.
Just wanted to introduce
you to someone.
This is Milton Cooper.
Retired HPD detective.
Mr. Cooper, how do you do?
Good to meet you.
Please, Milton.
Milton it is. Good to meet you.
Milton.
And he also happens
to know your grandfather.
Really?
God,
it’s like going back in time.
Look at him.
You-you look just like him.
Really?
And I hear
you’re even more
like him in spirit.
Well, I take that
as a-as a great compliment, sir.
Thank you.
Just tell me when
you want to leave.
Yeah.
You know, your grandfather
and I were best friends.
I didn’t know that.
He’d be so proud
to see you wearing a badge.
You know, all we used to talk
about was becoming detectives.
Wait a minute, my grandfather,
he wanted to be a cop?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
That-that was,
that was the dream
until December 7, 1941,
when it... it all changed.
Yeah.
I think about him a lot.
You know, what might’ve been
if he hadn’t
lost his life that day.
I joined the HPD.
But that was because
of all of the people
that sacrificed their lives.
Just like your grandfather.
All those years of service--
I did it to honor him.
That’s, uh...
Milton, that’s...
that’s incredible.
I don’t know what to say.
You know,
when I knew I was
gonna meet you,
I dug this
out of storage.
It belongs to your
grandfather.
It’s even got
your initials on it, too.
Yeah, it does.
You know, inside, there’s
a bit of a mystery.
It’s the last
unsolved case
of Chang Apana.
The Chang Apana?
The legendary
HPD detective,
Chang Apana.
Your grandfather
and I were obsessed.
We used to get together
on the weekends,
see if we could
crack the case.
We thought it would be
good, you know, practice
to became detectives.
Now, I’m gonna leave
this with you, because,
uh, maybe you’ll have
better luck than we did.
How ’bout that?
I’m gonna treasure this, Milton.
Uh, thank you so much.
I can’t get over it.
You look so much like him.
Take it easy.
You, too, sir.
♪ ♪
I think that was
mostly a success.
What’re you talking about,
mostly a success?
Everybody I spoke to
said it was awesome.
That’s because it was free.
I’m telling you, we made
a lot of fans tonight.
All right? Those people
are gonna be back
with their friends,
with their family,
and they’re gonna pay
for a meal, I’m telling you.
I hope so because, so far, the
only thing that this has done
is give me a headache
and emptied my pocket.
We got to figure out a way
to make some money. I-I mean,
nobody warned us about this?
I mean...
You mean why didn’t we listen
when everybody warned us,
is that what you mean?
Who’s the kid in that photo?
This picture?
Yeah.
That is Steven McGarrett senior.
Oh, wow.
That’s my granddaddy.
Oh, yeah?
And he’s with,
uh, none other
than Chang Apana.
Oh, that’s, uh,
that’s Chang Apana, huh?
Yeah, the one, the only.
I don’t get it.
Why do people lose their mind
every time Chang Apana’s name
gets brought up?
Are you kidding me?
Danny, guy was a legend.
I mean,
he was-he was
a real-life Hawaiian cowboy
who became HPD’s
most famous detective.
34 years this guy
policed Blood Town
and Hell’s Half Acre,
almost single-handedly
busting up gambling joints,
opium dens,
and he did all of it
without a gun.
His weapon of choice
was a bullwhip.
He’s like the Hawaiian, uh,
Indiana Jones.
That’s right.
He was-he was also
the inspiration for
Charlie Chan, but he was, eh,
less like
that character.
This guy was stabbed six times,
he was shot once,
he got thrown out of a
second-story window, run over
by a horse and
buggy. I mean...
I can’t believe he lived
through it all.
And you know what else?
He never let a bad guy get away.
Apprehended every one
of his suspects.
Sounds like you.
He was also
a three-time
recipient of the department’s
medal of valor,
so I’m gonna take that
as a compliment.
Thank you.
That’s not how I meant it.
Anyway, this is Chang Apana’s
last unsolved case.
Oh, yeah? Who was the,
uh, who was the victim?
It was actually a-a
missing persons case.
This kid.
Lyla Kekoa.
She was a girl,
went missing
in April, 1932.
I guess she was
from a-a poor family.
Um, says here that, uh,
whole family worked
on a-on a sugarcane plantation.
Basically, the type of girl
whose disappearance
probably wouldn’t
attract much attention,
but it didn’t stop Apana
from working this case every day
until he was forced to retire.
Milton was right,
there’s a-there’s a lot
of stuff in here. I just...
I don’t know-I don’t know
where to start
or what to do with it, even.
Well,
good news is,
uh, I don’t have to.
So I’m gonna
wish you luck.
Have a good evening.
Hey, drive safe.
♪ ♪
Chucklehead, wake up.
Hey, wake up. What’re you doing?
Huh?
Wake up. Got something.
Oh, Milton.
Must’ve dozed off.
Well, that’s,
uh, you know,
what happens when you burn
this much midnight oil.
Anyway, so, I told you I put
the word out to my stoolies.
Something came back,
third party.
Uh, deal is I cannot know
who or where it came from.
Think you might
like it.
(groans)
Lyla.
April, 1932.
I mean, it’s got to be
one of the last
photographs taken
of this kid
before she went missing.
Take a look, uh, what she’s
wearing around her neck.
STEVE:
That’s some serious ice.
Looks to me like
around $500 worth.
Let me ask you
a question, Milton.
How does a poor girl
like Lyla end up
with a piece like that?
I don’t know.
So you’re gonna go see
the brother again, huh?
Milton, get down!
You know, generally,
when people shoot at you
in front of your office, it
means you’re on to something.
It looks like
somebody wants
Lyla’s disappearance
to remain a mystery.
♪ ♪
And you say you didn’t
get a look at the perps?
No. It was dark and over
quickly, like my first marriage.
Whoa, Flanagan.
Come over here.
Detective McGarrett.
Glad to see you’re okay.
I appreciate that, thanks.
Listen, I need you
to put the word out
we’re looking for
a maroon Fleetmaster.
Usual reward
for any information, okay?
I’m on it.
So, today,
what we’re gonna do,
I’m gonna put your arms
over your side
and you’re gonna push up, okay?
So, what I need you to do is
put your hands down by
your chest here, okay?
Oh, you’re
not gonna
catch a wave like that,
you know?
good luck trying
to catch a wave
lying on your side,
but I promise you,
it’s not good.
(woman giggles)
Okay, so, if you want
to surf today, sister,
you-you gonna need
to be on your stomach.
You’re cute.
All right,
o-okay.
I promise you, you’re not,
y-you’re not gonna
catch a wave like that.
You need to flip over
to the other side.
Okay?
If that’s what
you want to do.
Then you can carry on
trying to surf like this,
but, uh,
today’s not...
(coughs)
Hey, if it’s surf
lesson you guys want,
then go down to the office
and book with them, okay?
It’s about your sister.
Just give me a
minute, okay?
I already told you
everything I know, okay?
Lyla disappeared
a long time ago.
All right? I-I don’t
have anything else to say.
Maybe you help us
a little bit. I mean,
I’m getting sand in my shoes.
You ever seen that
photograph of your sister?
No. No. Where’d you
get this from?
It’s, uh, from
an anonymous donor.
We don’t know who took it,
we don’t know
where it’s from.
But, uh, we do know that it’s
probably the last photograph
taken of her.
And we’re just curious--
maybe you could help us out--
where she got
a necklace like that.
We’re thinking
somebody
must’ve bought that for her.
Maybe an admirer.
Wonder if you had
anybody in mind.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I know.
Okay, just, uh, for my own
sanity, wh-what makes you
think that this time
is gonna be any different?
It has to be.
It does?
Yeah, it does,
all right?
Uh-huh.
We want to find this kid,
Lyla Kekoa--
got to talk to Pettifer.
The last two times that
we made a visit to this guy
his people made it very clear
that he didn’t want to
talk to anybody,
he don’t want any visitors.
Yeah, well, maybe we were
a little too polite
last time, Milton.
Well, we need a warrant, you
understand? Without a warrant,
he’s not gonna let us in.
He’s not gonna invite us in.
This guy--
look at him, look at him.
This beauty. He looks
like a walking pool table.
Just calm down,
calm down.
Just relax. How you doing?
Hey, how you doing there?
You two again.
Yeah.
Unless you have
a search warrant, this is
gonna be a short conversation.
Oh, sure, sure,
we got a warrant.
Yeah, now what... Milton,
where’d you put that...
I had a warrant somewhere.
I had it somewhere, I-I
Milton, where’d you,
uh... where’d you
put that search warrant?
stuck it in my shoe.
(grunts)
Definitely a short conversation.
(sighs)
Afternoon, Mr. Pettifer.
Who the hell are you?
Oh, I’m, uh,
I’m Detective
Steve McGarrett.
And this here handsome thing
is my partner,
Detective Milton Cooper.
Is that, uh, that the LA Times?
Can I see that?
That’s amazing.
You had this flown in
from the... from the states?
That’s very rich, very nice.
You can’t just
barge into my house
and harass me
in my own home.
Governor Poindexter
will hear about this.
I’ll have both your badges.
Mr. Pettifer,
we just want five minutes
of your time,
Just a couple questions.
I want you off my property now.
Uh-huh. I understand
that, sir.
Why don’t you
take a look at this?
That kid’s name
was Lyla Kekoa,
but I don’t have to
tell you that, do I?
Such a rare beauty.
So much life ahead of her.
(sighs)
But it’s been nine years now,
I don’t know how
you think I can help.
Well, you can start by,
uh, maybe telling us
if you know anything
about that ice
she was wearing around
her neck in that picture.
I don’t know anything
about that.
Really?
Well, ’cause we, uh,
think that somebody
bought it for her,
somebody who can afford
a thing like that.
Someone with a nice plantation,
somebody who, uh, has papers
flown in from the States...
Now, wait a second.
No, you
wait a second, sir.
You had her father
and her brother
working in the cane fields,
but you had that kid
up here in the house,
didn’t you, huh?
She meant something
to you, Mr. Pettifer.
Lyla.
(sighs) Lyla was too
delicate to work the cane.
Uh-huh.
Uh, so you had her up here.
Was that out of the kindness
of your heart or did she
have to do something for you?
I loved Lyla.
Like a daughter.
If you cared about her,
now’s the time to show it.
(sighs)
Lyla came to me a week
before she went missing.
What, uh, what for?
To offer me money.
$300 dollars,
as I recall.
Wait a minute,
Lyla gave you money?
It was the first installment
to pay off a debt
her father had owed me.
She was determined to get
her family off my plantation.
Wait a minute,
you didn’t think to ask
where this kid
was getting the money?
Maybe where
the necklace came from.
Believe what you want,
detectives.
The truth is I only wanted
the best for that girl.
(phone ringing)
And when she offered me
the money...
...it hurt.
You gonna answer that?
(sighs)
(grunts)
Hello.
Yes.
It’s for you.
Detective McGarrett.
Sir, I got word from
one of my street snitches.
He’s got eyes on
that Fleetmaster.
You get the address?
DANNY:
I tell you what,
I do not believe Pettifer,
not for two seconds, okay?
He had motive, all right?
Lyla, his, uh,
his precious, his daughter,
she wanted to leave
the plantation-- come on.
If she was desperate to
pay off Mr. Pettifer,
then who knows
what kind of trouble
that girl got
mixed up in.
Probably the kind of trouble
make a girl disappear.
DANNY:
There’s our Fleetmaster.
Shot-out taillight.
And a couple fatheads
who look like they enjoy
shooting at cops.
STEVE:
Yeah,
that’s them right there.
DANNY: Guess they’re not
in the mood to talk.
(engine starts)
(siren wailing)
And get closer.
I’m gonna shoot out his tires.
All right, all
right, all right.
Do whatever you’re gonna
do, but make it quick.
Whoa, hey!
It’s just what I need
in my life--
a nice drive out to the country.
Shut up and shoot, will you?
DANNY:
You know, these
automobile things--
they work a lot better when
you’re actually on the road.
You know what I mean,
on the road.
♪ ♪
(grunts)
Oh, no, no, no.
Steve, it’s gonna blow.
Get back.
STEVE:
They’re both dead.
(coughing)
Then get out of there!
What are you doing?
You crazy idiot!
(yells)
STEVE:
Aw, damn it.
Damn it?
How about
"thank you for saving me
from being barbecued"?
How about that?
I was trying
to get his wallet.
Now our best hope
of ID’ing those guys
just went up in smoke.
♪ ♪
STEVE:
Milton.
What?
Come have a look at this.
It’s pretty bad.
He, uh, he wants me
to come over there.
He thinks I’ll get sick
if I look at his open,
pustulous sore.
CUNHA:
Most people can’t stand
the sight of blood.
Nothing to be ashamed of.
Nothing to be
ashamed of, buddy.
That’s very nice
of you, uh, nurse.
You have a nice
bedside manner.
You’re gonna need it
dealing with that guy.
Thanks.
Uh, but for the record...
...I’m a doctor.
Apologies.
(man yelps)
Bingo.
I need a phone.
There you are. Hey.
Hey. Okay, so, I, uh, roped
Flanagan in
to help us, obviously.
So I’m sitting in there and
I notice the, uh, the jock guy
getting his arm worked on.
I don’t know if you see,
Yeah.
but his, uh, his girlfriend
had this, uh,
letterman sweater on.
Anyway, long story short,
made me think of where I seen
something like that before.
Take a look at the sweater
under her leg.
I see an F.
Uh, what is that a 32?
F 32?
Turns out that sweater’s
from Franklin High School.
Sent Flanagan down
to the library, he picks up
the yearbook from that time...
Went through, looking
for a picture of the girl
from that photograph...
Class of 1932.
STEVE:
Well, look at that. Alexa Alani.
Wait a minute, Alexa Alani--
why’s that name ring a bell?
♪ Someone like you ♪
♪ Cures everything gloomy ♪
♪ Turns wrong into right ♪
♪ Brightens the night ♪
♪ Brings happiness to me ♪
♪ Makes me luckier
than throwing a seven ♪
♪ Takes me nearer to heaven ♪
♪ Than anyone’s allowed to do ♪
♪ When your heart is talking ♪
♪ I feel like I’m
walking on a cloud ♪
♪ Some lucky someday ♪
♪ I’ll find ♪
♪ Someone I can boast to... ♪
STEVE: Hey.
DANNY: Huh?
That’s Earl Blackstone.
I see that. That’s-that’s
not why we’re here, though.
Okay? McGarrett?
♪ You know who, who,
who I’ll give the most to ♪
♪ You prey on my mind,
stay till I find ♪
♪ Someone like you... ♪
(indistinct chatter)
Hi.
How’s everybody doing tonight?
The singer’s really
something, isn’t she?
Oh, you’re not
gonna introduce me?
Yuki?
This is Detective
Steve McGarrett.
He’s also the latest example
of the harassment I’ve been
subjected to by his department
of degenerate cops.
Earl, it’s
very simple.
If you want HPD to leave you
alone, all you got to do
is not run illegal gambling dens
and don’t push dope.
Now, that sounds like slander.
Unless of course,
you have some evidence?
No...
Because if you did, I would be
in jail instead of sitting here
in this fine establishment
with this
beautiful young lady,
sipping on Krug ’28.
♪ Any other boy... ♪
Steven.
Yeah.
Uh, you could, uh,
you know, use the bathroom
or something?
Well, Yuki,
it was a pleasure.
Nice to meet you.
ADAM:
Good-bye, Detective.
You stay safe now.
’28, huh?
Thanks for the drink, Earl.
I’ll see you around.
Yuki.
♪ Like you for me ♪
♪ Until I find someone
like you. ♪
(applause)
KAMEKONA:
Ladies and gentlemen,
let’s hear it once again
for the exquisite Alexa Alani.
(applause)
Toodles, boys.
♪ ♪
DANNY:
Nice set.
Yeah.
You only saw
the last couple of minutes.
STEVE:
Oh, maybe
we could catch the rest of
your show some other time.
Say, do you mind if we ask you
some questions?
I don’t talk to cops.
Good night, Detectives.
Good night.
That went well.
Oh.
Sorry for the secrecy.
There were a lot of eyes
on me in that room.
Yes. Yes, there were.
Talking to cops can be
bad for your health.
Ah.
Figured you’d
be calling.
Heard you were going around town
asking questions about Lyla.
How did you know her?
We were hula girls
in the same show.
She was working two jobs, trying
to pay off her father’s debts,
make a better life.
DANNY:
Well, I got to ask you,
you ever seen her wearing
this necklace before?
I was with her the night
that photo was taken.
DANNY:
Hmm.
We were at the
same joint,
the Gator Lounge.
Lyla was over the moon.
Over the moon?
She was in love.
It was around 1:00. She got
into a man’s fancy new car,
and, uh,
and that was it.
Is that, uh, the guy
who gave her the necklace?
Mm-hmm.
Same guy, huh?
What was his name?
Would’ve been a big scandal
if people had put it together.
She was seeing...
(gunshot)
(gasping)
(tires screeching)
(gunshots)
Alexa. Alexa, stay with me.
Stay with me. We’re gonna get
an ambulance, you understand?
Who was Lyla’s boyfriend?
What was his name?
James-James.
James? James who?
(gasps)
(siren wailing)
Heads up.
(sighs)
GROVER: I told you guys
to drop this
and work the
Blackstone case.
Captain, I can explain.
That’s okay. I think I can
explain it just fine.
Because you two knuckleheads
think you know better than me,
now this poor young girl
is dead.
That about sum it up?
Let me ask the
two of yous
a question: was it worth it?
Whatever information
this girl gave you?
You crack the case with it?
No?
Guns and badges. I’m taking yous
both off the street
until further notice.
Oh, Cap...
Enough!
Guns, badges, now!
Anthony.
I warned yous.
JERRY:
So I went through
the HPD archives,
pulled everything
from around the time
that Lyla Kekoa went missing.
April 10, 1932,
James Whitmour receives
a brand-new Phantom II
for his 25th birthday.
That is definitely
a "fancy car."
That’s our James.
Whitmour? Whit...
Is this kid the son of, uh,
uh, Clarence Whitmour,
the casino man?
Mobster, you mean?
Yeah, the very same.
In fact, his pops is the one
that bought him that car.
Well, who’s the broad?
That would be James’s fiancée,
Ellen DeBecker,
of the DeBecker diamond fortune.
Okay. Well, if I was
engaged to her,
I’d be keeping my hula
girlfriend a secret, too.
Good work, Flanagan.
It looks like we need to talk
to James Whitmour.
Yeah, one problem with that.
He’s dead.
This ran in the late edition
of the Honolulu Star,
April 18, 1932.
STEVE: April 18.
STEVE:
That’s-that’s the same day
that Lyla went missing.
JERRY:
The crime scene report states
that James Whitmour was found
by a beat cop at 3:30 a.m.
in an alley in Hell’s Half-Acre.
C.O.D., multiple gunshot wounds,
mostly likely tommy gun.
A tommy gun, you say?
Where’s the blood, Flanagan?
If he was hit by a
tommy gun, there’d be
a big pool of blood
under the body.
Show me the autopsy report.
Okay. Right here,
look at this:
"Liver mortis observed
in the posterior and lumbar."
Which means that he would’ve
had to have been sitting down
when he was shot.
Yes, indeed, but the previous
photo you showed us, Flanagan,
he was clearly lying facedown
in the street.
So someone moved the body.
Maybe he was sitting in that
fancy car when he got shot.
If Lyla Kekoa left the club
with James that night,
it’s possible that
she was inside of that car
when the hit went down.
It’s possible.
(phone ringing)
Yes, hello. This is McGarrett.
Doctor, are you
100% sure?
No, no, I appreciate
the call. Thank you.
That was Dr. Shinseki,
from the coroner’s office.
He just told me off the record
that he has managed to I.D.
one of the perps from
the Fleetmaster crash
by his fingerprints.
The man was a known associate
of Clarence Whitmour.
And if I don’t
miss my guess,
Clarence Whitmour knows exactly
who killed his son.
It was Earl Blackstone.
It is common knowledge
that there has been a feud
between these two families
since 1932.
What odds do you want,
on this being the spark
that ignited the whole thing?
All right, let’s say
Lyla was in that car.
All right, makes sense to me
that Whitmour would want
to make the whole thing
disappear because he would not
want people knowing that his son
was messing with a hula girl.
So the crime wasn’t the murder,
it was the cover-up.
Exactly. We need to go and
talk to Clarence Whitmour.
Because you know
what this means?
He knows what happened
to Lyla Kekoa.
♪ ♪
(whistles)
You think we got everyone?
(groans)
Yeah, I do now.
If Whitmour was putting up
this much resistance,
it can only mean one thing.
Yeah, he’s still
in the house.
(grunts)
STEVE:
Lyla Kekoa.
What happened to her?
Huh?
Mr. Cooper, one or two?
Oh.
I-I would say
let’s go with three...
Three?
...’cause time is
of the essence.
And hey, I’m no, uh,
I’m no math wiz,
but I believe
that puts your odds
at, like, uh,
50-50, you know?
Three it is.
(pistol clicks)
Now the odds are
slightly worse.
You’re crazy.
You can’t do this.
You’re supposed to be cops.
Cops? What, you see any badges?
I don’t, I don’t have a badge.
You?
No, no badges.
No, I don’t have a badge.
(pistol cocks)
Okay, okay, I’ll tell you
what you want.
What?
I’ll tell you what you want.
Oh, good. Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your son, James, was in
a relationship with Lyla Kekoa.
They were together the night
he was gunned down.
In fact, he was driving a very
nice, new Rolls Phantom II
that you bought him.
My guess is that
both of those kids
were killed inside
of that vehicle.
DANNY:
You got word of it,
you know, told your goons
to go tidy it up.
Make it look like
he was all by himself.
STEVE:
I mean, losing a son
is one thing...
...but covering up
a scandal that comes from
an engaged man
being found dead
next to his hula girl
sweetheart...
You made sure that secret
died with your son.
You buried it that night.
Where is she, Mr. Whitmour?
What’d you do with Lyla’s body?
(pistol cocks)
Okay, I’ll tell you
what happened to her.
(air raid siren blaring)
Stay.
DANNY:
What the hell is going on?
They’re attacking Pearl Harbor.
(truck beeping)
(garbage cans crashing)
Hey, look at this.
I’m, uh,
doing my own research
on Chang Apana.
It’s actually, uh,
it’s a good--
W-What’s the matter with you?
I think I just solved this case.
I think I know what happened
to Lyla Kekoa.
STEVE:
All right, now, bear with me.
Finding the car is the key
to finding out
what happened to Lyla.
Let me just stop you
for one second.
Just, I just want to be clear.
Um, Chang Apana,
this brilliant detective...
he was HPD’s finest.
You know, greatest
of all time.
He couldn’t solve
this case, but you, uh...
you did it in your sleep?
I know this sounds crazy,
but I’m telling you
this was all in the file.
It’s nuts.
I mean, it was like
a bunch of pieces
to a puzzle.
I just had to put ’em together.
What?
Why with the face?
Nothing. I-I just realized
I’m not gonna get any peace
until you continue, and
I let you finish this thing.
So, please, go ahead.
Thank you, Daniel.
Okay, on the night that
Lyla Kekoa went missing
and James Whitmour
got murdered,
they were last seen,
the two of them,
getting into James’s
Rolls-Royce Phantom.
Okay.
Now, James’s body was found
sometime the next morning.
But Lyla Kekoa, never seen
or heard of ever again.
Nor was the
Rolls-Royce Phantom--
a very distinctive car
that would have attracted
a lot of attention.
I don’t care how
distinctive the car was,
finding a 90-year-old automobile
is basically impossible.
It could be in a million
different pieces.
different places...
Exactly.
Okay, James Whitmour died
behind the wheel of that car.
Multiple gunshot wounds.
They hit him with a machine gun.
Which means those bullets had to
cut through the frame
of the car,
through the windshield
to get to him.
Oh, so a 90-year-old car
with bullet holes.
You should have
just said that.
That doesn’t make it
that much easier.
Whitmour senior orders
the cleanup.
Okay, he has to get Lyla
and the Rolls off the road
before this tragedy
turns into a scandal.
Now, like the driver, the car is
riddled with bullets, riddled.
It can’t be drivable.
So, how do you get rid
of a wrecked car?
You tow it.
That’s what you do,
you tow it.
One of Whitmour senior’s listed
companies is a haulage firm.
Now, I’m going through
their old log books,
and I find a record
of a journey made
from downtown Honolulu
to the Whitmour estate
that very same night.
So you think that the car was
put on the estate somewhere?
A dead body, blood,
shot-up car--
it’s got to be put somewhere
no one can find it. Right?
January 23, 1932.
Whitmour senior submits plans
to the local zoning commission
for a swimming pool
to be built on the estate.
Now, according to
financial records,
he hired a company to, uh,
to start work on said project.
Check this out.
No pool.
(men shouting)
DANNY:
Unbelievable.
STEVE: What?
You did it, you solved
a 90-year-old cold case.
STEVE:
I didn’t solve it.
I just got it
over the finish line.
♪ ♪
PASTOR:
Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done
on earth
as it is in heaven.
♪ ♪
Give us this day
our daily bread
and forgive us
our trespasses.
(sighs)
Okay...
what’s the problem?
I don’t know, look,
this case, this case.
This case has got me
thinking about
what I really want to do
with my time, okay.
What you want to do
with your time?
Yeah.
(chuckles)
Your time?
What are you laughing at?
’Cause, you know, you got,
you got two jobs,
and-and now you’re
solving cases in your sleep.
You don’t have any time.
That’s not what
I’m talking about.
That’s not what I mean.
What are you talking about?
I’m talking about
my grandfather.
Uh-huh.
Okay, what about him?
He would have given anything
to be a cop, that guy.
You know what he gave?
He gave his life
fighting for this country.
And then here I am,
I got the badge.
I got this great job.
What am I doing
running a restaurant, Danny?
What am I doing?
Uh, is that a joke, or...
No, it’s not a joke.
And I’m really sorry.
I know you’re gonna be mad.
Danny, being a cop is
all I know now.
And I love my job.
Why am I gonna
walk away from it?
Dude, I’m sorry.
I really am sorry.
I didn’t...
You’re mad, right?
If you’re out, I’m out.
What did you say?
I thought you were sick
of dodging bullets.
You told me you didn’t
want to get shot at.
I’d-I’d rather die
from a bullet
than die from the stress
of running this place.
Really? Seriously?
Yeah.
What about the...
I mean, we got...
Kamekona calls me,
like, twice a day.
He wants to buy us out
of our share, so...
(claps)
Don’t move, don’t move.
Okay.
To-to us...
Okay. Yes.
...and our very short
and-and beautiful
but successful run.
Yes. Passionate.
Passionate, successful run...
Yes.
...as restaurateurs.
And, if I may...
to knowing when to quit.
DANNY: Cheers.
STEVE: Cheers.